---
layout: post
title: 02 Tensor Flow
comments: true
---

[code@github](https://github.com/subramgo/tflow/blob/master/02%20Regression/02_01_tflow.py)

This blog post walks through writing tensorflow code for linear regression model with l1 regularization. We will leverage scikit learn to generate some test data for us.

		import tensorflow as tf
		import numpy as np
		from sklearn.datasets import make_regression

		# Make a regression dataset with coeffiecients
		X, y, coeff  = make_regression(n_samples = 5000, n_features = 100, n_targets =1 , noise = 0.05, coef = True)
		y = np.array([y]).T

		# No of instances n
		# No of features  p
		n, p = X.shape

Let us add the bias term to our X variable.

		# Add bias term
		X = np.column_stack([np.ones(n), X])
		p = p + 1

We go ahead and build the tensorflow graph.


		# Linear regression model
		# y = W * x + b
		with tf.name_scope('model') as scope:
		    theta  = tf.Variable(tf.zeros([p,1]), name='coeffiecients')
		    alpha  = tf.constant(0.001)

Variables theta represents the coeffiecients of the model and theta is used to decide what extent of regularization we are interested in.

		# Place holders for training data
		x  = tf.placeholder(tf.float32, shape = [n,p])
		y_ = tf.placeholder(tf.float32, shape = [n,1])

		# Linear regression with regularization
		# y = theta*x
		y_pred = tf.matmul(x, theta)


Let us define some place holders for our training input,. You can seet that placeholder x is of same size as our input X. Tensorflow session will fill it with the input provided through the feed dictionary during training. We then define the operator for our regression model.

		lasso_term = alpha * (tf.reduce_sum(tf.abs(theta)))
		cost = tf.div( tf.reduce_sum( tf.square( tf.sub ( y_pred, y_ ) ) ) + lasso_term , 2*n ,name = "cost")

The operator for the cost function is defined. In our case the average squared difference between actual and prediced value plus the regularization term, l1 regularization is used.

		# Gradient descent learning
		learning_rate = 0.1
		optimizer = tf.train.GradientDescentOptimizer(learning_rate).minimize(cost)

Finally the  optimizer for minimizing the cost. 

		# intialize variables and begin session
		init = tf.initialize_all_variables()
		session = tf.Session()


		session.run(init)

We intitalize the session and proceed to trianing.


		old_training_cost = 0
		epochs = 5000
		# Start training
		for i in range(epochs):
		        # Shuffle
		    in_data = np.column_stack([X, y])
		    np.random.shuffle(in_data)
		    y = in_data[:,-1]
		    y = np.array([y]).T

		    X = in_data[:,0:in_data.shape[1]-1]
		    feed_dict = {x:X, y_:y}
		    session.run(optimizer, feed_dict = feed_dict)

		    training_cost = session.run(cost, feed_dict = feed_dict)
		    if np.abs(training_cost - old_training_cost) < 0.000001:
		        break

		    if i%500 == 0:
		                print "Iteration %d Training cost %0.3f"%(i, training_cost)

		    old_training_cost = training_cost

We have set 5000 epochs, and at the beginning of every epoch we shuffle our training data. We run the optimizer and get the cost function output. The if statement with break terminates the loop if good progress is not made.




